# Phones Bad

People don't use computers anymore; they use smartphones. Smartphones have dethroned TVs as the perfect device for consumption of content. They're also perfect for *creating* content, as long as that content is videos or photos or "posts".

*Smartphones are ruining our attention spans* is a sentence that boring people like to say because they don't have anything interesting to say, so nobody pays attention to them, which makes the boring people jealous of the phones. People just love to post. People will continue to post. And there are too many posts to read, so it's not worth it to spend time looking at a post you don't want to look at. Because there's too much good stuff out there.

Phones are not so good if you want to type something, multitask, fill out a form, manage files, plug in headphones, make music, run EXEs, create software, press buttons, or do anything else important.

Phones have always asked you to pick them up. A long time ago, even before computers, phones would electromechanically ring a metal bell to tell you to pick them up. This meant that somebody wants to have a voice conversation with you. These conversations were synchronous: when you pick up the phone, you're both there, giving each other attention at the same time.

Back to what phones are bad at:

**Multitasking:** there is no such thing as multitasking in the psychological sense, but multitasking in a digital sense involves stuff like a drag and drop filesystem, a clipboard system, and general interoperability in the software ecosystem. Apple's solution allows copying from your Apple iPhone and pasting to your Apple MacBook, and some weirdo splitscreen mode for Apple iPad which technically counts as multitasking. For audio applications the Apple Ecosystem let you use Apple Audio Unit software to pass audio from app to app, which is admittedly cool but incompatible with the rest of the world. Android phones have splitscreen, which never works well, since splitting a phone-size screen in half leaves each app with a nigh unusable amount of square millimeters for touching.

**Managing files** Imagine doing your taxes on a phone. Logging into HR/payroll websites. Downloading PDF files. Then printing them out to mail in or whatever. Imagine doing that. This process probably more bearable if you use Apple iCloud to transfer documents from your Apple iPhone to your Apple MacBook.

**Music:** This one is kind of a fib. Phones have incredible musical potential that's barely been realized. [See the Endlesss iOS app](https://endlesss.fm/create) for an incredible third-party music platform that feels like it was made possible by the existence of phones. Apple shot themselves in the foot when they took headphone jacks away from phones, only including them for iPads. And of course, everyone else follows Apple's lead, because Apple's so good at design. Bluetooth headphones aren't so good for music creation because of unavoidable latency issues.

**Running EXEs:** Before I switched to OS X, I didn't understand how you could possibly *do* anything with the OS, since it can't run EXE files. I didn't understand that file extensions are simply a naming convention, which gives your OS hints about which programs can open which files. The `.exe` extension was just Windows' convention for how to name executable binary files. I also didn't understand that executable binary files typically have to be compiled for each individual processor and OS they're going to run on. Source code can compile to Windows-specific binaries or compile to Mac-specific binaries or compile to phone-specific binaries. So even though OS X can't run EXE files, most of the stuff I was used to using was available and extractable from a `.dmg` file, which is kind of like a `.zip` file. You double click it, it opens up a window, then you drag the application into the Applications folder yourself. It's a very cute and skeuomorphic way of installing software. **And in 2008, all of this changed.** See, the iPhone was limited to first-party apps for the first year of its life. You couldn't even download `.ios` files to run on your phone! But in Q3 2008, Papa Jobs blessed us with The App Store. A few years later, everyone else (i.e. Google and Microsoft) followed suit, opening their own storefronts. Fast forward to the time of this writing (Q4 2023), you still can't even download `.ios` files to run on your iPhone. Apple won't enable this outside of an antitrust lawsuit, because why would they? It's in their interest to only allow software purchases from their storefront, because they get to make the rules. They get to siphon off 30% of transactions, because developers don't have any other options. And everyday consumers don't really care about this, because why would they? Apps don't cost 70¢ to devs + 30¢ to Apple. They only cost 99¢.

**Typing things:** Virtual keyboards suck, but at the same time, nobody is stopping you from plugging a nice mechanical keyboard into your phone, except for maybe the keyboard's backlight's wattage requirements or lack of appropriate USB-X to Lightning/USB-C dongle. There's something to be said for a physical input device that doesn't change while you're trying to use it. Typing on a virtual keyboard always was, and always will be, ass. I don't care who won: Blackberry was right and Apple was wrong.

Smartphones are incredible pieces of hardware that we still haven't figured out how to use properly yet. It looks like their most important use is going to be an interface to AIs, but that'd be boring.
